A version control system is a system for monitoring and effectively tracking the various changes made to a software code. In the course of developing a software or code, developers will usually make modifications creating different versions of the software code. Modifications at times may be helpful but at other times may be catastrophic, causing the developer(s) to seek for an earlier version of the software code without the problem that was encountered. Version control system makes this possible, as all the different versions of the software code are stored and made available, should a need arise for it. Version control therefore makes it possible for a developer to scale through the process of coding, by removing the obstacle of having to code from scratch or finding it difficult to identify a problem in the latest version of a software code.
GIT is a free version control system that allows modifications of its source code, i.e., it is an open source version control systen. Git is different from earlier version control systems in that with git, every developer has access to their code repository history locally. Developed in the year 2005, GIt has grown to be the most used version control system worldwide. Git presents developers with a great support for branching, merging and rewriting history and makes operations such as commit, merge, DIV and lock relatively faster when compared with older versio control systems. GIT also makes it easy for members of a team to review each other's code, via pull requests.
Create a new project folder in desktop or anywhere it can be easily accessed, The folder should be titled the same name as the remote repository. Once this has been done, drag the folder unto visual studio code to open the file with it. In the opened file, create a new text file. Then initialize git by writing out the code in the terminal.Then add the file to be committed using GIT add. Then you can check GIT status to know if file has been added or not. Then create a branch in terminal and link the local repository to the remote repository. Finally local repository can be pushed to remote repository